README.md, before:

# CIL - Core Imaging Library

[![CI-master](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/actions/workflows/build.yml) ![conda-ver](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/version.svg) ![conda-date](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/latest_release_date.svg) [![conda-plat](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/platforms.svg) ![conda-dl](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/downloads.svg)](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil)

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb)

The Core Imaging Library (CIL) is an open-source Python framework for tomographic imaging with particular emphasis on reconstruction of challenging datasets. Conventional filtered backprojection reconstruction tends to be insufficient for highly noisy, incomplete, non-standard or multichannel data arising for example in dynamic, spectral and in situ tomography. CIL provides an extensive modular optimisation framework for prototyping reconstruction methods including sparsity and total variation regularisation, as well as tools for loading, preprocessing and visualising tomographic data.

## Documentation

The documentation for CIL can be accessed [here](https://tomographicimaging.github.io/CIL).

## Installation of CIL

### Conda

Binary installation of CIL can be achieved with `conda`.

We recommend using either [`miniconda`](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest) or [`miniforge`](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge), which are both minimal installers for `conda`. We also recommend a `conda` version of at least `23.10` for quicker installation.

Install a new environment using:

```sh
conda env create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TomographicImaging/Build-scripts/refs/heads/main/env_files/cil_env.yml
```

To install CIL and the additional packages and plugins needed to run the [CIL demos](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos) install the environment with:

```sh
conda env create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TomographicImaging/Build-scripts/refs/heads/main/env_files/cil_demos_env.yml
```

where:

- `astra-toolbox=*=py*` enables CIL support for [ASTRA toolbox](http://www.astra-toolbox.com) CPU projector (2D Parallel beam only) (GPLv3 license)
- `astra-toolbox=*=cuda*` (requires an NVIDIA GPU) enables CIL support for [ASTRA toolbox](http://www.astra-toolbox.com) GPU projectors (GPLv3 license)
- `tigre` (requires an NVIDIA GPU) enables support for [TIGRE](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE) toolbox projectors (BSD license)
- `ccpi-regulariser` is the [CCPi Regularisation Toolkit](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CCPi-Regularisation-Toolkit)
- `tomophantom` can generate phantoms to use as test data [Tomophantom](https://github.com/dkazanc/TomoPhantom)
- `ipykernel`  provides the IPython kernel for Jupyter (allowing jupyter notebooks to be run)
- `ipywidgets` enables visulisation tools within jupyter noteboooks

### Dependencies

CIL's [optimised FDK/FBP](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/discussions/1070) `recon` module requires:

1. the Intel [Integrated Performance Primitives](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/ipp.html#gs.gxwq5p) Library ([license](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/develop/external/us/en/documents/pdf/intel-simplified-software-license-version-august-2021.pdf)) which can be installed via conda from the `https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda` channel.
2. [TIGRE](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE), which can be installed via conda from the `ccpi` channel.

#### Binary packages and dependencies

While building the CIL package we test with specific versions of dependencies. These are listed in the [build.yml](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/blob/master/.github/workflows/build.yml) GitHub workflow and [environment-test.yml](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/blob/master/scripts/requirements-test.yml). The following table tries to resume the tested versions of CIL and its required and optional dependencies.

| Package | Tested Version |  Recommended conda channel | License |
|----------|----------|----------|----|
| Python | 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 |  conda-forge | [PSLF](https://docs.python.org/3/license.html) |
| Numpy |  >=1.23 and <2.0.0 |  conda-forge | [BSD](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/license.html)|
| **Optional dependencies** ||| 
| IPP | 2021.12 | https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda| [Intel Simplified Software License](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/license/end-user-license-agreement.html) |
| ASTRA | 2.1 |  astra-toolbox | [GPLv3](https://github.com/astra-toolbox/astra-toolbox?tab=GPL-3.0-1-ov-file#readme) |
| TIGRE | 2.6 |  ccpi | [BSD](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE?tab=BSD-3-Clause-1-ov-file#readme) |
| CCPi-Regularisation |  24.0.1 | ccpi | [Apache v2](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CCPi-Regularisation-Toolkit?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file#readme) |
| TomoPhantom | 22.0.0 | ccpi | [Apache v2](https://github.com/dkazanc/TomoPhantom?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file#readme) |

### Docker

Finally, CIL can be run via a Jupyter Notebook enabled Docker container:

```sh
docker run --rm --gpus all -p 8888:8888 -it ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil:latest
```

> [!TIP]
> docker tag | CIL branch/tag
> :---|:---
> `latest` | [latest tag `v*.*.*`](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/releases/latest)
> `YY.M` | latest tag `vYY.M.*`
> `YY.M.m` | tag `vYY.M.m`
> `master` | `master`
> only build & test (no tag) | CI (current commit)
>
> See [`ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil`](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/pkgs/container/cil) for a full list of tags.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!NOTE]
> GPU support requires [`nvidia-container-toolkit`](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit) and an NVIDIA GPU.
> Omit the `--gpus all` to run without GPU support.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Folders can be shared with the correct (host) user permissions using
> `--user $(id -u) --group-add users -v /local/path:/container/path`
> where `/local/path` is an existing directory on your local (host) machine which will be mounted at `/container/path` in the docker container.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!TIP]
> See [jupyter-docker-stacks](https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/common.html) for more information.

## Getting Started with CIL

### CIL Training

We typically run training courses at least twice a year - check <https://ccpi.ac.uk/training/> for our upcoming events!

### CIL on binder

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb)

Jupyter Notebooks usage examples without any local installation are provided in [Binder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb). Please click the launch binder icon above. For more information, go to [CIL-Demos](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos) and [https://mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org).

### CIL Videos

- [PyCon DE & PyData Berlin 2022](https://2022.pycon.de), Apr 2022: [Abstract](https://2022.pycon.de/program/GSLJUY), [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xd4erPj0uEs), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/blob/main/binder/PyData22_deblurring.ipynb)
- [Training School for the Synergistic Image Reconstruction Framework (SIRF) and Core Imaging Library (CIL)](https://www.ccpsynerbi.ac.uk/SIRFCIL2021), Jun 2021: [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTuAla-OP8WVNPWZfis6BRsWFq_S0bqvp), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/tree/main/training/2021_Fully3D)
- [Synergistic Reconstruction Symposium](https://www.ccpsynerbi.ac.uk/symposium2019), Nov 2019: [Slides](https://www.ccppetmr.ac.uk/sites/www.ccppetmr.ac.uk/files/Papoutsellis%202.pdf), [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLyxAZuV8tuKsOY4DTDzy04DRrwkxBkTYh), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/tree/main/training/2019_SynergisticSymposium)

## Building CIL from source code

### Getting the code

In case of development it is useful to be able to build the software directly. You should clone this repository as

```sh
git clone --recurse-submodule git@github.com:TomographicImaging/CIL
```

The use of `--recurse-submodule` is necessary if the user wants the examples data to be fetched (they are needed by the unit tests). We have moved such data, previously hosted in this repo at `Wrappers/Python/data` to the [CIL-data](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Data) repository and linked it to this one as submodule. If the data is not available it can be fetched in an already cloned repository as

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Building with `pip`

#### Install Dependencies

To create a conda environment with all the dependencies for building CIL run the following shell script:

```sh
bash ./scripts/create_local_env_for_cil_development.sh
```

Or with the CIL build and test dependencies:

```sh
bash ./scripts/create_local_env_for_cil_development.sh -t
```

And then install CIL in to this environment using `pip`.

Alternatively, one can use the `scripts/requirements-test.yml` to create a conda environment with all the
appropriate dependencies on any OS, using the following command:

```sh
conda env create -f ./scripts/requirements-test.yml
```

#### Build CIL

A C++ compiler is required to build the source code. Let's suppose that the user is in the source directory, then the following commands should work:

```sh
pip install --no-deps .
```

If not installing inside a conda environment, then the user might need to set the locations of optional libraries:

```sh
pip install . -Ccmake.define.IPP_ROOT="<path_to_ipp>" -Ccmake.define.OpenMP_ROOT="<path_to_openmp>"
```

### Building with Docker

In the repository root, simply update submodules and run `docker build`:

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
docker build . -t ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil
```

### Testing

One installed, CIL functionality can be tested using the following command:

```sh
export TESTS_FORCE_GPU=1  # optional, makes GPU test failures noisy
python -m unittest discover -v ./Wrappers/Python/test
```

## Citing CIL

If you use CIL in your research, please include citations to **both** the software on Zenodo, and a CIL paper:

E. Pasca, J. S. Jørgensen, E. Papoutsellis, E. Ametova, G. Fardell, K. Thielemans, L. Murgatroyd, M. Duff and H. Robarts (2023) <br>
Core Imaging Library (CIL) <br>
Zenodo [software archive] <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4746198 <br>

In most cases, the first CIL paper will be the appropriate choice:

J. S. Jørgensen, E. Ametova, G. Burca, G. Fardell, E. Papoutsellis, E. Pasca, K. Thielemans, M. Turner, R. Warr, W. R. B. Lionheart and P. J. Withers (2021) <br>
Core Imaging Library - Part I: a versatile Python framework for tomographic imaging. <br>
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A. 379: 20200192. <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0192 <br>
**Code:** https://github.com/TomographicImaging/Paper-2021-RSTA-CIL-Part-I <br>

However, if your work is more closely related to topics covered in our second CIL paper then please additionally or alternatively reference the second paper:

E. Papoutsellis, E. Ametova, C. Delplancke, G. Fardell, J. S. Jørgensen, E. Pasca, M. Turner, R. Warr, W. R. B. Lionheart and P. J. Withers (2021) <br>
Core Imaging Library - Part II: multichannel reconstruction for dynamic and spectral tomography. <br>
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A. 379: 20200193. <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0193) <br>
**Code:** https://github.com/TomographicImaging/Paper-2021-RSTA-CIL-Part-II <br>

Commit message:

Update install commands
Signed-off-by: Edoardo Pasca <14138589+paskino@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# CIL - Core Imaging Library

[![CI-master](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/actions/workflows/build.yml) ![conda-ver](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/version.svg) ![conda-date](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/latest_release_date.svg) [![conda-plat](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/platforms.svg) ![conda-dl](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil/badges/downloads.svg)](https://anaconda.org/ccpi/cil)

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb)

The Core Imaging Library (CIL) is an open-source Python framework for tomographic imaging with particular emphasis on reconstruction of challenging datasets. Conventional filtered backprojection reconstruction tends to be insufficient for highly noisy, incomplete, non-standard or multichannel data arising for example in dynamic, spectral and in situ tomography. CIL provides an extensive modular optimisation framework for prototyping reconstruction methods including sparsity and total variation regularisation, as well as tools for loading, preprocessing and visualising tomographic data.

## Documentation

The documentation for CIL can be accessed [here](https://tomographicimaging.github.io/CIL).

## Installation of CIL

### Conda

Binary installation of CIL can be achieved with `conda`.

We recommend using either [`miniconda`](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest) or [`miniforge`](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge), which are both minimal installers for `conda`. We also recommend a `conda` version of at least `23.10` for quicker installation.

Install a new minimal environment with CIL using:

```sh
conda create --name cil -c conda-forge -c ccpi cil=24.3.0 
```

To install CIL and the additional packages and plugins needed to run the [CIL demos](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos) and do X-Ray CT reconstructions, install the environment with:

```sh
conda create --name cil -c conda-forge -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda -c ccpi cil=24.3.0 ipp=2021.12 astra-toolbox=*=cuda* tigre ccpi-regulariser tomophantom ipykernel ipywidgets scikit-image
```

where:

- `astra-toolbox=*=py*` enables CIL support for [ASTRA toolbox](http://www.astra-toolbox.com) CPU projector (2D Parallel beam only) (GPLv3 license)
- `astra-toolbox=*=cuda*` (requires an NVIDIA GPU) enables CIL support for [ASTRA toolbox](http://www.astra-toolbox.com) GPU projectors (GPLv3 license)
- `tigre` (requires an NVIDIA GPU) enables support for [TIGRE](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE) toolbox projectors (BSD license)
- `ccpi-regulariser` is the [CCPi Regularisation Toolkit](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CCPi-Regularisation-Toolkit)
- `tomophantom` can generate phantoms to use as test data [Tomophantom](https://github.com/dkazanc/TomoPhantom)
- `ipykernel`  provides the IPython kernel for Jupyter (allowing jupyter notebooks to be run)
- `ipywidgets` enables visulisation tools within jupyter noteboooks

Users may chose to omit any of the optional dependencies in the above command.

We maintain an environment file with the required packages to run the [CIL demos](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos) which you can use to create a new environment. This will have specific and tested versions of all dependencies, see table below: 

```sh
conda env create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TomographicImaging/Build-scripts/refs/heads/main/env_files/cil_demos_env.yml
```

### Dependencies

CIL's [optimised FDK/FBP](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/discussions/1070) `recon` module requires:

1. the Intel [Integrated Performance Primitives](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/ipp.html#gs.gxwq5p) Library ([license](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/develop/external/us/en/documents/pdf/intel-simplified-software-license-version-august-2021.pdf)) which can be installed via conda from the `https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda` channel.
2. [TIGRE](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE), which can be installed via conda from the `ccpi` channel.

#### Binary packages and dependencies

While building the CIL package we test with specific versions of dependencies. These are listed in the [build.yml](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/blob/master/.github/workflows/build.yml) GitHub workflow and [environment-test.yml](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/blob/master/scripts/requirements-test.yml). The following table tries to resume the tested versions of CIL and its required and optional dependencies.

| Package | Tested Version |  Recommended conda channel | License |
|----------|----------|----------|----|
| Python | 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 |  conda-forge | [PSLF](https://docs.python.org/3/license.html) |
| Numpy |  >=1.23 and <2.0.0 |  conda-forge | [BSD](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/license.html)|
| **Optional dependencies** ||| 
| IPP | 2021.12 | https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda| [Intel Simplified Software License](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/license/end-user-license-agreement.html) |
| ASTRA | 2.1 |  astra-toolbox | [GPLv3](https://github.com/astra-toolbox/astra-toolbox?tab=GPL-3.0-1-ov-file#readme) |
| TIGRE | 2.6 |  ccpi | [BSD](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE?tab=BSD-3-Clause-1-ov-file#readme) |
| CCPi-Regularisation |  24.0.1 | ccpi | [Apache v2](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CCPi-Regularisation-Toolkit?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file#readme) |
| TomoPhantom | 22.0.0 | ccpi | [Apache v2](https://github.com/dkazanc/TomoPhantom?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file#readme) |

### Docker

Finally, CIL can be run via a Jupyter Notebook enabled Docker container:

```sh
docker run --rm --gpus all -p 8888:8888 -it ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil:latest
```

> [!TIP]
> docker tag | CIL branch/tag
> :---|:---
> `latest` | [latest tag `v*.*.*`](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/releases/latest)
> `YY.M` | latest tag `vYY.M.*`
> `YY.M.m` | tag `vYY.M.m`
> `master` | `master`
> only build & test (no tag) | CI (current commit)
>
> See [`ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil`](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/pkgs/container/cil) for a full list of tags.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!NOTE]
> GPU support requires [`nvidia-container-toolkit`](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-container-toolkit) and an NVIDIA GPU.
> Omit the `--gpus all` to run without GPU support.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Folders can be shared with the correct (host) user permissions using
> `--user $(id -u) --group-add users -v /local/path:/container/path`
> where `/local/path` is an existing directory on your local (host) machine which will be mounted at `/container/path` in the docker container.

<!-- <br/> -->

> [!TIP]
> See [jupyter-docker-stacks](https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/common.html) for more information.

## Getting Started with CIL

### CIL Training

We typically run training courses at least twice a year - check <https://ccpi.ac.uk/training/> for our upcoming events!

### CIL on binder

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb)

Jupyter Notebooks usage examples without any local installation are provided in [Binder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/binder%2Findex.ipynb). Please click the launch binder icon above. For more information, go to [CIL-Demos](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos) and [https://mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org).

### CIL Videos

- [PyCon DE & PyData Berlin 2022](https://2022.pycon.de), Apr 2022: [Abstract](https://2022.pycon.de/program/GSLJUY), [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xd4erPj0uEs), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/blob/main/binder/PyData22_deblurring.ipynb)
- [Training School for the Synergistic Image Reconstruction Framework (SIRF) and Core Imaging Library (CIL)](https://www.ccpsynerbi.ac.uk/SIRFCIL2021), Jun 2021: [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTuAla-OP8WVNPWZfis6BRsWFq_S0bqvp), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/tree/main/training/2021_Fully3D)
- [Synergistic Reconstruction Symposium](https://www.ccpsynerbi.ac.uk/symposium2019), Nov 2019: [Slides](https://www.ccppetmr.ac.uk/sites/www.ccppetmr.ac.uk/files/Papoutsellis%202.pdf), [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLyxAZuV8tuKsOY4DTDzy04DRrwkxBkTYh), [Material](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/tree/main/training/2019_SynergisticSymposium)

## Building CIL from source code

### Getting the code

In case of development it is useful to be able to build the software directly. You should clone this repository as

```sh
git clone --recurse-submodule git@github.com:TomographicImaging/CIL
```

The use of `--recurse-submodule` is necessary if the user wants the examples data to be fetched (they are needed by the unit tests). We have moved such data, previously hosted in this repo at `Wrappers/Python/data` to the [CIL-data](https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Data) repository and linked it to this one as submodule. If the data is not available it can be fetched in an already cloned repository as

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Building with `pip`

#### Install Dependencies

To create a conda environment with all the dependencies for building CIL run the following shell script:

```sh
bash ./scripts/create_local_env_for_cil_development.sh
```

Or with the CIL build and test dependencies:

```sh
bash ./scripts/create_local_env_for_cil_development.sh -t
```

And then install CIL in to this environment using `pip`.

Alternatively, one can use the `scripts/requirements-test.yml` to create a conda environment with all the
appropriate dependencies on any OS, using the following command:

```sh
conda env create -f ./scripts/requirements-test.yml
```

#### Build CIL

A C++ compiler is required to build the source code. Let's suppose that the user is in the source directory, then the following commands should work:

```sh
pip install --no-deps .
```

If not installing inside a conda environment, then the user might need to set the locations of optional libraries:

```sh
pip install . -Ccmake.define.IPP_ROOT="<path_to_ipp>" -Ccmake.define.OpenMP_ROOT="<path_to_openmp>"
```

### Building with Docker

In the repository root, simply update submodules and run `docker build`:

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
docker build . -t ghcr.io/tomographicimaging/cil
```

### Testing

One installed, CIL functionality can be tested using the following command:

```sh
export TESTS_FORCE_GPU=1  # optional, makes GPU test failures noisy
python -m unittest discover -v ./Wrappers/Python/test
```

## Citing CIL

If you use CIL in your research, please include citations to **both** the software on Zenodo, and a CIL paper:

E. Pasca, J. S. Jørgensen, E. Papoutsellis, E. Ametova, G. Fardell, K. Thielemans, L. Murgatroyd, M. Duff and H. Robarts (2023) <br>
Core Imaging Library (CIL) <br>
Zenodo [software archive] <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4746198 <br>

In most cases, the first CIL paper will be the appropriate choice:

J. S. Jørgensen, E. Ametova, G. Burca, G. Fardell, E. Papoutsellis, E. Pasca, K. Thielemans, M. Turner, R. Warr, W. R. B. Lionheart and P. J. Withers (2021) <br>
Core Imaging Library - Part I: a versatile Python framework for tomographic imaging. <br>
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A. 379: 20200192. <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0192 <br>
**Code:** https://github.com/TomographicImaging/Paper-2021-RSTA-CIL-Part-I <br>

However, if your work is more closely related to topics covered in our second CIL paper then please additionally or alternatively reference the second paper:

E. Papoutsellis, E. Ametova, C. Delplancke, G. Fardell, J. S. Jørgensen, E. Pasca, M. Turner, R. Warr, W. R. B. Lionheart and P. J. Withers (2021) <br>
Core Imaging Library - Part II: multichannel reconstruction for dynamic and spectral tomography. <br>
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A. 379: 20200193. <br>
**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0193) <br>
**Code:** https://github.com/TomographicImaging/Paper-2021-RSTA-CIL-Part-II <br>
