docs/source/introduction.rst, before:

Introduction 
************

The goal of the Core Imaging Library is to allow the user to simply create iterative reconstruction methods which
go beyond the standard filter back projection technique and which better suit the data characteristics.
The framework comprises: 

* :code:`cil.framework` module gives the building blocks used to describe and handle the data
* :code:`cil.io` module which provides a number of loaders for real CT machines, e.g. Nikon. It also provides reader and writer to save to NeXuS file format.
* :code:`cil.optimisation` module allows the user to create iterative methods to reconstruct acquisition data applying different types of regularisation, which better suit the data characteristics.
* :code:`cil.plugins` module which allows CIL to use selected functionality from ASTRA, TIGRE, TomoPhantom and the Regularisation Toolkit
* :code:`cil.processors` module contains tools for data manipulation and common CT pre-processing steps
* :code:`cil.recon` module contains an optimised FDK/FBP reconstructors, making using the both CIL accelerated libraries and the Tigre/ASTRA back-projectors
* :code:`cil.utilities` module contains a selection of display tools for 2D and 3D data, as well as real and simulated test datasets


CT Geometry
==========

Please refer to `this <https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/blob/main/demos/1_Introduction/00_CIL_geometry.ipynb>`_ notebook on the CIL-Demos 
repository for full description.


In conventional CT systems, an object is placed between a source emitting X-rays and a detector array 
measuring the X-ray transmission images of the incident X-rays. Typically, either the object is placed 
on a rotating sample stage and rotates with respect to the source-detector assembly, or the 
source-detector gantry rotates with respect to the stationary object. 
This arrangement results in so-called circular scanning trajectory. Depending on source and detector 
types, there are three conventional data acquisition geometries:

* parallel geometry (2D or 3D),
* fan-beam geometry, and
* cone-beam geometry.

Parallel geometry
-----------------

Parallel beams of X-rays are emitted onto 1D (single pixel row) or 2D detector array. This geometry 
is common for synchrotron sources. 2D parallel geometry is illustrated below.

.. figure:: images/parallel.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    2D Parallel geometry

.. figure:: images/parallel3d.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    3D Parallel geometry

Fan-beam geometry
-----------------

A single point-like X-ray source emits a cone beam onto 1D detector pixel row. Cone-beam is typically
 collimated to imaging field of view. Collimation allows greatly reduce amount of scatter radiation 
 reaching the detector. Fan-beam geometry is used when scattering has significant influence on image 
 quality or single-slice reconstruction is sufficient.

.. figure:: images/fan.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    Fan beam geometry

Cone-beam geometry
------------------
A single point-like X-ray source emits a cone beam onto 2D detector array. 
Cone-beam geometry is mainly used in lab-based CT instruments. Depending on where the sample
is placed between the source and the detector one can achieve a different magnification factor :math:`F`:

.. math::
  
  F = \frac{r_1 + r_2}{r_1}

where :math:`r_1` and :math:`r_2` are the distance from the source to the center of the sample and 
the distance from the center of the sample to the detector, respectively.

.. figure:: images/cone.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    Cone beam geometry


Multi channel data
==================

CIL is designed to work with 4D data.

Both :code:`AcquisitionGeometry`, :code:`AcquisitionData` and :code:`ImageGeometry`, :code:`ImageData`
can be defined for multi-channel (spectral/time) CT data using :code:`channels` attribute.


Block Framework 
===============

The block framework allows writing more advanced `optimisation problems`_. Consider the typical 
`Tikhonov regularisation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikhonov_regularization>`_:

.. math:: 

  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}A u - b \end{Vmatrix}^2_2 + \alpha^2\|Lu\|^2_2

where,

* :math:`A` is the projection operator
* :math:`b` is the acquired data
* :math:`u` is the unknown image to be solved for
* :math:`\alpha` is the regularisation parameter
* :math:`L` is a regularisation operator

The first term measures the fidelity of the solution to the data. The second term measures the 
fidelity to the prior knowledge we have imposed on the system, operator :math:`L`.  

This can be re-written equivalently in the block matrix form:

.. math::
  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}\binom{A}{\alpha L} u - \binom{b}{0}\end{Vmatrix}^2_2

With the definitions:

* :math:`\tilde{A} = \binom{A}{\alpha L}`
* :math:`\tilde{b} = \binom{b}{0}`

this can now be recognised as a least squares problem which can be solved by any algorithm in the :code:`cil.optimisation`
which can solve least squares problem, e.g. CGLS.

.. math:: 

  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}\tilde{A} u - \tilde{b}\end{Vmatrix}^2_2

To be able to express our optimisation problems in the matrix form above, we developed the so-called, 
Block Framework comprising 4 main actors: :code:`BlockGeometry`, :code:`BlockDataContainer`, 
:code:`BlockFunction` and :code:`BlockOperator`.

Commit message:

Update CIL License Headers (#1453)
* Licensing headers

* update readme

* header issues

* Update change log [ci skip]

* update cil-astra headers

docs/source/introduction.rst, after:

..     -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
      Copyright 2022 United Kingdom Research and Innovation
      Copyright 2022 The University of Manchester
    
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
      you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
      You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
      See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
      limitations under the License.
    
     Authors:
     CIL Developers, listed at: https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL/blob/master/NOTICE.txt
     
Introduction 
************

The goal of the Core Imaging Library is to allow the user to simply create iterative reconstruction methods which
go beyond the standard filter back projection technique and which better suit the data characteristics.
The framework comprises: 

* :code:`cil.framework` module gives the building blocks used to describe and handle the data
* :code:`cil.io` module which provides a number of loaders for real CT machines, e.g. Nikon. It also provides reader and writer to save to NeXuS file format.
* :code:`cil.optimisation` module allows the user to create iterative methods to reconstruct acquisition data applying different types of regularisation, which better suit the data characteristics.
* :code:`cil.plugins` module which allows CIL to use selected functionality from ASTRA, TIGRE, TomoPhantom and the Regularisation Toolkit
* :code:`cil.processors` module contains tools for data manipulation and common CT pre-processing steps
* :code:`cil.recon` module contains an optimised FDK/FBP reconstructors, making using the both CIL accelerated libraries and the Tigre/ASTRA back-projectors
* :code:`cil.utilities` module contains a selection of display tools for 2D and 3D data, as well as real and simulated test datasets


CT Geometry
==========

Please refer to `this <https://github.com/TomographicImaging/CIL-Demos/blob/main/demos/1_Introduction/00_CIL_geometry.ipynb>`_ notebook on the CIL-Demos 
repository for full description.


In conventional CT systems, an object is placed between a source emitting X-rays and a detector array 
measuring the X-ray transmission images of the incident X-rays. Typically, either the object is placed 
on a rotating sample stage and rotates with respect to the source-detector assembly, or the 
source-detector gantry rotates with respect to the stationary object. 
This arrangement results in so-called circular scanning trajectory. Depending on source and detector 
types, there are three conventional data acquisition geometries:

* parallel geometry (2D or 3D),
* fan-beam geometry, and
* cone-beam geometry.

Parallel geometry
-----------------

Parallel beams of X-rays are emitted onto 1D (single pixel row) or 2D detector array. This geometry 
is common for synchrotron sources. 2D parallel geometry is illustrated below.

.. figure:: images/parallel.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    2D Parallel geometry

.. figure:: images/parallel3d.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    3D Parallel geometry

Fan-beam geometry
-----------------

A single point-like X-ray source emits a cone beam onto 1D detector pixel row. Cone-beam is typically
 collimated to imaging field of view. Collimation allows greatly reduce amount of scatter radiation 
 reaching the detector. Fan-beam geometry is used when scattering has significant influence on image 
 quality or single-slice reconstruction is sufficient.

.. figure:: images/fan.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    Fan beam geometry

Cone-beam geometry
------------------
A single point-like X-ray source emits a cone beam onto 2D detector array. 
Cone-beam geometry is mainly used in lab-based CT instruments. Depending on where the sample
is placed between the source and the detector one can achieve a different magnification factor :math:`F`:

.. math::
  
  F = \frac{r_1 + r_2}{r_1}

where :math:`r_1` and :math:`r_2` are the distance from the source to the center of the sample and 
the distance from the center of the sample to the detector, respectively.

.. figure:: images/cone.png
    :align: center
    :alt: alternate text
    :figclass: align-center

    Cone beam geometry


Multi channel data
==================

CIL is designed to work with 4D data.

Both :code:`AcquisitionGeometry`, :code:`AcquisitionData` and :code:`ImageGeometry`, :code:`ImageData`
can be defined for multi-channel (spectral/time) CT data using :code:`channels` attribute.


Block Framework 
===============

The block framework allows writing more advanced `optimisation problems`_. Consider the typical 
`Tikhonov regularisation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikhonov_regularization>`_:

.. math:: 

  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}A u - b \end{Vmatrix}^2_2 + \alpha^2\|Lu\|^2_2

where,

* :math:`A` is the projection operator
* :math:`b` is the acquired data
* :math:`u` is the unknown image to be solved for
* :math:`\alpha` is the regularisation parameter
* :math:`L` is a regularisation operator

The first term measures the fidelity of the solution to the data. The second term measures the 
fidelity to the prior knowledge we have imposed on the system, operator :math:`L`.  

This can be re-written equivalently in the block matrix form:

.. math::
  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}\binom{A}{\alpha L} u - \binom{b}{0}\end{Vmatrix}^2_2

With the definitions:

* :math:`\tilde{A} = \binom{A}{\alpha L}`
* :math:`\tilde{b} = \binom{b}{0}`

this can now be recognised as a least squares problem which can be solved by any algorithm in the :code:`cil.optimisation`
which can solve least squares problem, e.g. CGLS.

.. math:: 

  \underset{u}{\mathrm{argmin}}\begin{Vmatrix}\tilde{A} u - \tilde{b}\end{Vmatrix}^2_2

To be able to express our optimisation problems in the matrix form above, we developed the so-called, 
Block Framework comprising 4 main actors: :code:`BlockGeometry`, :code:`BlockDataContainer`, 
:code:`BlockFunction` and :code:`BlockOperator`.
